It was a freshman privilege to have the carry matches, and if you could once again do this low crawl below the table, you could go over and you could light the upper class one's paper napkin and have it burn.
Or the other thing, it was always a freshman privilege to start a Wildcat.
Somebody would tell you to stand up.
and yell, beat the hell out of whoever you were playing.
An example you were playing at the University of Houston, it was beat the hell out of Cougar High.
Or if you were playing Baylor, beat the hell out of Baylor or wherever.
You never wanted to stand up and beat the hell out of somebody that other people couldn't hear.
And after a while,
in your outfit it became clear which freshman could stand up and yell and which one would get into the spirit because you could almost give a little speech when you say, beat the hell out of somebody.
You could stand up on your chair or if you were a really bold freshman you would just stand up on the table and you would get down in a humpet position with your hands on your knees and at the top of your voice
but very much under control so you didn't slur it all together.
You could go beat the ever-living, complex, confounding, complex hell out of those whatever from Baylor.
And then you'd go, yay, and everybody stood up and yelled.
But the Wildcats, there was only three in the mess hall when people would stand up, so it was the first three.
So an outfit that had a particularly loud freshman or a particularly
I know spirited to make sure that they got the first one.
So as soon as you sat down, if some upperclassman told you to get up and lead a Wildcat, that was kind of a, I guess, a positive signal that you felt good about.
So some of the things that you did in the mess hall, like they weren't going to send you over to another table if you were going to get caught.
So being singled out for some of these details was a positive recognition.
Now this, I'll call it mischief, at mealtime occurred more often at supper
Well, it didn't seem like it occurred very much at breakfast because people were still waking up, the upper classroom, and the attendance at morning chow, not everybody went to morning chow.
At noon chow it seemed like everybody was at noon chow.
Evening chow, for whatever, some of the people might go out to eat or be going on dates or going to study or whatever, but it seemed like at noon chow everybody was there all the time.
But the evening chow was pretty well attended too because the meals were not only being pleasurable to eat but they were also a social time.
They were also the gossip time and the catch up on the news time and find out about this outfit and that outfit and the upperclassmen were
would talk about other members of the outfit and what was going on.
Of course, freshmen were not allowed to talk unless they were spoken to, and their eyes were straight to the front.
It's amazing how much you can see when you're looking straight ahead.
Of course, your ears, you pick up everything.
you quickly know what's in your outfit and who the good guys are and who the bad guys are and who's respected and who's not respected and who's getting good grades and who's got a girlfriend that's a hot and heavy relationship and which girlfriends are about ready to dump them, etc.
Go to class now.
What did, when you went to class, what did you take with you?
What did you assume was the normal behavior pattern in class?
But let's back up first.
How did you select your courses that first semester?
Do you remember?
Well, I came, I didn't
I knew very little about college other than the fact that it was a good thing to go there.
So my first semester I came to Texas A&M, I was going to major in general business, just for want of a, okay, here I am type of thing.
And throughout my time at A&M, I had a clipboard.
And on my clipboard, and I still have the clipboard to this day.
on my clipboard i used to keep my class schedule so where i was supposed to be what i was supposed to do and i always carried a paper with me to take notes because i was a note i was a note taker in class and oftentimes i would carry a book but i don't i don't remember carrying a whole lot of books but i did have this i had this clipboard that that took with me and i and i and i took notes and best i can recall as i majored in
business for the first semester.
I think the second semester I switched over to major in physical education because coming to college for me was the first time
that I really started making decisions on my own, like I made the decision to join the Marine Corps and then I told my parents.
I made the decision to switch from general business to physical education because I did some soul searching and decided if I wasn't going to be in the service that I wanted to work with people and be a coach.
Later on, I started taking lots of English courses.
They didn't have double majors in those days, but I really enjoyed English and writing and speaking.
I figured that that would help me most as a Marine officer to be able to write and speak and interact.
It must have been my sophomore year that I became desirous of becoming a yell leader because I had, I guess, come under the spell, if you will, of the Aggie spirit and the fact that the yell leaders were the ones that focused that spirit of the Corps of Cadets.
I decided to become a run for yell leader, and I was successfully elected.
I was a yell leader both my junior and senior year.
And by this time I had, between my freshman and sophomore year, I had also gone off to Quantico, Virginia for six weeks of training in the Marine Corps.
And that was another eye-opening experience with regards to the Marine Corps.
And my resolve to become a Marine officer was strengthened.
and stimulated by my exposure six weeks at Iquantico.
So when I came back to the Corps for my sophomore year and then throughout my time in the Corps, I was very fixed in what I was going to do after I graduated.
A lot of the things that I wanted to do in the Corps, I made a conscious decision to participate and to experience and to seek out various things so that it would enhance the qualities that I would be bringing to being an officer in the Marine Corps.
Back to that first semester, do you remember going through any registration line in either Cebisa or G. Raleigh?
No, I don't remember, but I do remember after that other semesters of going through the drill over at Cebisa, all the lines outside, etc.
What about that first semester, do you remember some courses, some teachers?
I remember
I remember a history course from Mr. Ashcraft in History 105.
I always loved history.
He was an exceptionally good teacher, and I remember being right on the borderline between a B and an A in the class, and the final exam was, I remember just studying and
I remember I got a B-plus in the final exam for a B in the course, and one of the things he wrote on the back of my paper, he drew a little shovel.
and said, the order of the shovel is yours for all that BS you've shoveled my way, but you really didn't answer the question.
Oh, boy.
But I remember him being good in his un-air-conditioned classrooms at one o'clock in the afternoon after a big meal in Duncan of still taking notes and just a superb instructor.
English?
English.
Do you remember?
I wish I could.
I don't remember the English, but English instruction I thought was outstanding.
That's one reason I was motivated towards taking more when I was here.
Everything from—I had some success in writing.
The teacher would say, in fact, the writing is not up to standard.
You all have to pay attention.
You're not going to be able to do well, etc., etc.
These grades, there was one B-, two Cs, three Ds, and twenty S. And I'd get my paper back, and I'd either be a B- or C. I'd be right up at the top.
Part of that was because my mother had been a newspaper reporter and a newspaper writer.
One of the things that I remember interacting during junior high and high school was my mom helping me with that.
My dad was kind of the math guy and my mother was the English guy, but because my dad was on the road a lot, I had probably more, I guess, scholastic interaction at the high school level with my mom.
So I was comfortable writing and it was accepted.
I remember that.
Algebra was hard for me, but I remember that the prof told us that there would be no question on the final that we hadn't been on one of our previous tests.
So I went through and worked every problem.
and knew how to do it that we had had before, you know, by sheer hard work, and then we came in the final.
Lo and behold, there was ten problems with a bonus one, and I still remember, you know, one of those things that stick with you thirty-plus years later, I got a hundred and ten on the final, and I think raised my grade all the way up to a B, which was, you know, but it's just, I found the academics challenging
but not insurmountable.
Of course, I didn't major in the hardest thing.
I often wish that political science or history
20 years later down the road as a general officer and a colonel in the Marine Corps, sometimes I thought that I might have been better suited to have studied something different in college, but I wouldn't trade the Texas A&M education both in the classroom and outside the classroom for anything.
What did you and your close friends that freshman year, what did you all decide were the basic guidelines about attendance and behavior and so forth in class?
Did you all go to class regularly?
I went to every class.
ever, the whole time I was a student, I never missed a class that I can recall.
I don't ever.
Did people misbehave in class?
No.
You went to class and it was never.
I mean, I don't remember anybody ever misbe... Sleeping in class?
Did anybody go to sleep?
I'm sure there were, but I don't remember.
I remember one guy one time who was a very marginal football player.
I remember one guy cheating in class, but he was so dumb, I don't even think he knew how to cheat.
But I don't remember people sleeping.
I don't remember people cutting up.
I don't remember cheating.
But in some ways, it was just an idealistic...
experience at Texas A&M.
I was one of these guys that shortly after I got here fell in love with it and it's just, it stayed with me.
And I guess in many ways I feel like I, you know, owe my life to my experiences and values that I picked up in the Corps.
And of course, you know, I guess we all pick up values all along in our lives.
We pick them up from our parents and from our
teachers and coaches as we go through, but at Texas A&M, the values that I picked up from the upperclassmen and then from my classmates and from Aggies were what, in many ways, were the most sustaining and the most valuable lessons that I picked up.
If you and or a friend wanted to kind of go somewhere to relax, you had an hour without classes,
Where did you go?
Where could you slip away?
Well, I remember coming to Cushing Library and it was always comfortable in Cushing Library and I don't ever remember getting harassed.
And I always liked magazines and newspapers and when we had to write papers I always
I found the research kind of enjoyable.
I mean, it wasn't a pain to do it.
I remember relaxing there.
I also remember the All-Faith Chapel.
I know where the room is over there right now, but I went over there a couple of times and studied.
I also remember various times and places in the MSC.
Where were those?
But they were just, I mean it was mainstream.
It wasn't a corner or an alcove.
It was just like, well there's a chair and it might be right on that main kind of thoroughfare in there and I'd be there.
If you went to the snack bar, did an upperclassman bother a fish in the snack bar?
You know, I don't remember going, I knew who the snack bar was, but I wasn't a snack bar person.
How much spending money did you have that freshman year?
Interesting.
When I came away to school, my dad gave me a checkbook.
And I wrote all the checks that I wanted to write, open account.
And I remember, oh, three or four years after I graduated, I said to my dad, I said, Dad, you know, you sent me away to school.
with a checkbook and you never gave me spending limitations or whatever."
I said, that was kind of unusual.
Why did you do that?
He said, son, all I had to do was look at those checks and I could tell exactly what you were doing, what you were spending your money on, because there was no credit cards in those days.
And I guess I was more frugal
because I was just frugal.
I never have been a drinker, so I didn't spend money on beer.
I remember we used to
It seems like on Friday nights or Saturday nights, I remember groups all through the time I was going out for chicken fried steak and a movie.
It seemed like chicken fried steak dinner was like a dollar fifteen or a dollar and a quarter and the movie was fifty cents.
So I was spending money during the course of a week, I was probably about two dollars and fifty cents.
Now that full semester, that first semester, did you and your buddies attempt any good bull?
Did you attempt any pranks on anybody or anything?
Yeah, I remember going to another dorm or two and taking lights.
The hallways had screw-in light bulbs and if you sat on somebody's shoulder you could take
take the light bulbs.
But I think in our outfit something had gone wrong the previous year.
Some upperclassmen had gotten in trouble and some people kicked out because there just wasn't the
Maybe it was the quality of leadership.
There just wasn't this desire to do stupid, silly things.
Like when I get together with my classmates now and they talk about some of the things that went on in their outfits, and that just wasn't us.
But then, I don't know, because my junior year
The outfit I was in, I was a First Sergeant.
With my knowledge, the freshman raided another dorm to include lighting off some tires that caused smoke and blew out windows, and I got our outfit disbanded.
But it was more, it was one of those things that,
that just kind of happened.
As a First Sergeant, I knew about it.
I remember sitting in a dorm with a buddy, sitting in our chairs with our feet propped up on the radiator, watching the freshmen go over there at 1 or 2 in the morning and watching it all happen and come apart.
The next day, our outfit was history.
I remember being on suspended suspension from school.
I'm thankful to this day that I wasn't kicked out of school.
but it was a tremendous lesson that I learned about the responsibility for your actions and the actions that you are in charge of.
Our commanding officer, he was the CO, and I don't know if he knew about it or what, but he was removed as CO.
It was like, as a first sergeant, I had an active hand in seeing that the rug got pulled out from under him, and he was
Fine cadet and a good guy.
Do you remember your first Corps trip?
I remember the Corps trip.
I don't know if it was the first one.
It probably was.
The first Corps trip that year, as best I can recall, was up to Fort Worth to play TCU.
How did you get there?
Well, I remember driving.
I remember stopping in Mejia because driving by car with Mike Richardson who was at that first semester, was not my official lady, was a good buddy.
I remember driving up with him and his brother had been in the Corps the year before, stopping at Mejia where they served fried pies.
This was before the McDonald's became about and this was before the franchise and fried apple pies were the big thing and half the Corps was in the parking lot at this place in Mejia.
getting a Dr. Pepper, I'm sure, and a fried pie.
Then we drove on up to Dallas and stayed with his family.
The next morning I remember getting over to Fort Worth bright and early to the form-up point and going to the game.
I think the Aggies got outscored.
And I don't remember the post-game party, although I'm sure there was one, but I remember the marching down the streets of Fort Worth and, you know, being proud and saluting.
And I remember it was just one of these beautiful, not-a-cloud-in-the-sky days, and it was just, you know, I just thought this was just a great experience.
Do you remember on all your Corps trips, do you remember any bad experiences?
I sure haven't gotten many of those.
Did the crowd ever boo or?
No, there's all kind of people watching and all kind of people clapping and the band playing and, I mean, as you would expect for somebody that was thirty years career.
military.
I enjoyed wearing the uniform and I enjoyed the people clapping and the flags.
It was just something that became, I guess, part and parcel of my makeup.
I just enjoyed it.
Do you remember going to Silver Taps as a freshman?
Yeah, it was explained to us and I remember
I guess there was—memory fades, but it seemed to me like me and my roommate were more concerned to make sure that no light got out of our room than we were to having profound thoughts about, you know, our own mortality and Aggie spirit and the things that you're supposed to think about or you shouldn't be thinking about when you go to the silver test.
as I recall, more concerned about making sure there wasn't light getting out through underneath our door and, you know, out the window because we were told this is lights out and this is the way you show your respect for the Aggie who was killed.
But everybody did take it seriously.
Oh, absolutely.
Describe Bonfire, your fish here.
What did you all do?
Well, I remember very well the participation in going out to Bonfire because I remember...
Once again, to think that Bonfire was new and different, I didn't understand it.
It becomes part of you once you've done it.
But I remember early on a Saturday morning of getting on a flatbed truck up behind Duncan and with no sides on the flatbed truck.
I remember that we all were sitting there and we all had to lock arms.
That's the way that no one fell off.
The freshmen, I think it was our privilege to sit on the outside and lock arms and all the other, the upperclassmen behind us.
some bawdy songs being sung, some that I had never heard of before.
But the spirit was, it was like, well, this is to go off and have a good time.
How far away was the cutting area?
Do you remember?
It was maybe 10 or 12 miles.
How many weeks did you all work on Bonfire your freshman year?
You know, I only remember going out to the cut site
two weekends is the most I can possibly remember.
I remember Saturday, but it was an all-day thing on Saturday of cutting down—I don't think I ever got the cut as a freshman, but carrying those logs out.
It just seemed systematic, and it seemed good, and the upperclassmen were in control, and I don't remember anything
I don't remember any hijinks or hazing.
It was a good time and we were just working to get the bonfire built.
See, what most people have said, just like you, that the time they spent was not very long in number of days or weeks.
And the dimensions of Bonfire were not yet huge.
Where was it located?
Bonfire was right behind Duncan on the drill field and it was a teepee style.
And my outfit was not involved in
building, and was not involved working behind Duncan.
I might have had a guard duty out there, but I don't remember it.
Do you remember where the outhouse came from, by chance?
No.
Among the things I've learned, in the 20s at least, is that you lived in somewhere not too far away, and if you wanted a better outhouse at home than you had,
You came and arranged for the Corps to come and steal yours.
In other words, you knew they were going to do it.
And then the campus administration then paid for your new outhouse so that you got rid of an old one and got a new one.
And everybody was happy.
Yeah.
Probably better constructed than the one that you lost.
That's right.
Let's see.
And they cut down with almost nothing but axes.
Is that right?
I don't remember any saws ever being out there.
That's the same.
Let's see.
And the Texas game, was it here or there?
Do you remember?
The first year it was here, Kyle Field, because I remember
I remember James Saxton was the All-American from TU and he was from Palestine.
I remember it was a close game, or I think it was close.
I remember it was a sunny day.
Then the two games in Austin.
I don't, we played our hearts out and they had much the better team, but we got outscored both times.
And I remember the 63 game here when we had them, when they were, after the Kennedy assassination, and we had them down and going into the fourth quarter and our captain, John Brotherton, intercepted and was tackled trying to let all the ball back and, you know, all that's
football history and I remember the missed call in the end zone by the referee.
Of course I was a yell eater that year and I was down there close and saw it all.
And had a, you know, and had a, like everybody did, all the Aggies there, had a heartbreaking experience.
That freshman year you said there were some athletes in your outfit.
Were you aware of any cush courses for athletes only?
I haven't heard of any either.
No, I don't, no, no.
The, let's see, another freshman.
Do you remember going to muster your freshman year?
I'll tell you, the only memories I have is not specific years.
but going to muster in front of what we call the Simpson's Administration Building, now called the Williams Building.
I remember so crowded that I was way off to the right and couldn't see, couldn't hear, et cetera.
And things gradually got moved.
Okay, you did okay in grades your first semester at the end of the first year.
What did you do at the end of that first academic year?
What did you do that summer?
Well, that summer, the second half of the summer, I went to Quantico, Virginia for Marine Corps training.
The first half of the summer,
I went home because my parents had moved from North Dakota to Billings, Montana, and I worked for my dad, delivering dynamite and also mixing ammonium nitrate and fuel oil.
They were building a big dam up there, and he had the contract to supply the explosives to blow the rock out.
It was on the Bighorn River in southeastern Montana.
I'm saying, wow, over ammonium nitrate because I was a high school student in Orange, Texas, almost exactly 100 miles east of the Texas City explosion.
And you remember?
Which was a shipload of ammonium nitrate because the shock waves rattled the Venetian blinds in our Spanish class window 100 miles away.
At Quantico,
Did you feel that your Aggie year had helped you be ready for that?
Oh, yeah.
I've said many times that I felt like I had a head start in the Marine Corps and experience and level of confidence that was just uniquely Aggie.
What was it like to be a sophomore?
A sophomore, I was over and had switched outfits and went over to I-3, which was the new Navy Marine Corps unit that was formed because the Texas Maritime Academy had started and we had their freshmen.
Fish year was over in the Duncan area.
Sophomore year was over in the Cebisa area.
the uh the people in the outfit were all all the upperclassmen were marine oriented so we were a homogeneous group so to speak but uh in retrospect we were also probably uh full of ourselves thinking that we were a little bit better than everybody else and it would eventually led to our demise uh in those days the rest of the corps was not into the pt and